---
layout: release-notes
title: October 2, 2018 - 5.27 - Analysis List Filters and UTC Timestamps
section_root: release-notes
category: release notes
tags: [basespace]
version: 5.27.0
release_date: 2018-10-02
---

## What's changed for BaseSpace Sequence Hub 5.27.0 

- Features

	- Added Delivery Status and Project filters to Analyses List Page.
  - Added messaging to the Transfer Ownership dialog to clarify that the Optional Message text field supports 140 characters.
  - Added UTC-formatted timestamps to the Dashboard, Runs list, Run Summary tab, and Run Files tab.

- Bugs Fixed

  - Fixed an issue that caused free apps to be disabled for Basic account users. 
  - Fixed an issue with the app input form returning an error. If a FASTQ data set associated with an input biosample had been deleted, the app failed to launch. This issue occurred in New mode only.
  - Fixed slow loading times on Runs list pages.
  - Disabled the Reports tab for apps that do not include report output. Application results are available on the Files tab.
  - Changed the Prep tab index edit icon to a pencil.

### Release 5.27.1 - October 29, 2018 - staged roll out started
- Features
  - Changed the default instance type used by default because AWS is deprecating the existing type. Thew new type is a more powerful instance with more cores and typically faster run times and lower costs. Please note that we have not been able to test all the apps, but have not seen issues with the illumina apps that we were able to test with the new instance type. Affected illumina apps (not labs apps) have an updated "What's New" section.
  
- Bugs Fixed
  - Fixed an issue running DESeq2 with blank entries in sample matcher.
  - Coverage files are no longer created from indexed bam files, resulting significantly shorter run times for apps that produce them.
  
